# Migrating from Version 3.x.x to Version 4.x.x

Version 4.x.x contains some braking changes.  
Therefore it might be needed to change the implementation in your code.  
This document lists all braking changes and information on how to change the implementation.

***No previous existing functionality is lost with the update to version 4.0 or higher.  
Everything as an equal replacement.*** 

## WinGetPackage class

This class can no longer be inherited because it was changed to sealed.
The interface `IWinGetPackage` was added as an alternative.

### Properties

- `Version` renamed to `VersionString`
- `VersionObject` renamed to `Version`
- `AvailableVersion` renamed to `AvailableVersionString`
- `AvailableVersionObject` renamed to `AvailableVersion`

### Creating a WinGetPackage instance
In version 3 or older it was possible to create an instance of the `WinGetPackage` class from outside the library by using its constructor and setting ist properties.
``` csharp
WinGetPackage instance = new WinGetPackage()
{
  Name = "Sample",
  Id = "SampleId",
  Version = "1.0"
}; 
```

This is no longer possible in version 4.0.0 or newer, because there is no longer a public constructor and all properties are now read only.

As a replacement, there is a new static create method for the `WinGetPackage` class,  
that is better managed and has multiple overloads to provide a better way of creating a `WinGetPackage` class instance from outside the library.

``` csharp
WinGetPackage instance = WinGetPackage.Create("Sample", "SampleId", "1.0");
```

## WinGetPinnedPackage class

This class can no longer be inherited because it was changed to sealed.

### Properties

- `PinnedVersionObject` removed because it could also be a version range

## WinGetSource class

This class can no longer be inherited because it was changed to sealed.
The interface `IWinGetSource` was added as an alternative.

### Properties

- `Url` renamed to `Arg`

### Creating a WinGetSource instance
In version 3 or older it was possible to create an instance of the `WinGetSource` class from outside the library by using its constructor and setting ist properties.
``` csharp
WinGetSource instance = new WinGetSource()
{
  Name = "Sample",
  Url = "https://sample.com",
  Type = "Sample.Type"
}; 
```

This is no longer possible in version 4.0.0 or newer, because there is no longer a public constructor and all properties are now read only.

As a replacement, there is a new static create method for the `WinGetSource` class,  
that is better managed and has multiple overloads to provide a better way of creating a `WinGetSource` class instance from outside the library.

``` csharp
WinGetSource instance = WinGetSource.Create("Sample", "SampleId", "https://sample.com", "Sample.Type");
```

## Exceptions

Exceptions were previously in the main namespace `WGetNET`.  
To improve the structure of the library all exceptions were moved to their own namespace.  
The new namespace for exceptions is `WGetNET.Exceptions`.

## WinGetInfo class

The `WinGetInfo` class was renamed to just `WinGet`, to better represent its use case.  
Therefore references to `WinGetInfo` need to be changed to `WinGet`.

This class can no longer be inherited because it was changed to sealed.

**Attention:**  
***There still exists a `WinGetInfo` class, that represents a different set of data.  
Please see the section for the `WinGetData` class for more information.***

### Properties

- `WinGetInstalled` renamed to `IsInstalled`
- `WinGetVersion` renamed to `VersionString`
- `WinGetVersionObject` renamed to `Version`

### Methods

- `GetWinGetData`
  - Renamed to `GetInfo`
  - Return type changed from `WinGetData` to `WinGetInfo`
- `GetWinGetDataAsync`
  - Renamed to `GetInfoAsync`
  - Return type changed from `WinGetData` to `WinGetInfo`
- `ExportSettingsToFile`
  - Return type changed from `bool` to `void`
  - Will now throw exceptions when the action fails
- `ExportSettingsToFileAsync`
  - Return type changed from `Task<bool>` to `Task`
  - Will now throw exceptions when the action fails

## WinGetData class

The `WinGetData` class was renamed to `WinGetInfo`, to better represent its use case.  
Therefore references to `WinGetData` need to be changed to `WinGetInfo`.

### Properties

- `WinGetVersionString` renamed to `VersionString`
- `WinGetVersion` renamed to `Version`
- `Directories` return type changed from `List<WinGetInfoEntry>` to `ReadOnlyCollection<WinGetDirectory>`
- `Links` return type changed from `List<WinGetInfoEntry>` to `ReadOnlyCollection<WinGetLink>`
- `AdminSetting`
  - Renamed to `AdminSettings`
  - Return type changed from `List<WinGetInfoEntry>` to `ReadOnlyCollection<WinGetAdminOption>`

## WinGetSourceManager

### ImportSource Methods

The following, redundant, source import methods were removed:

``` csharp
public bool ImportSource(List<WinGetSource> sources); // Removed

public bool ImportSource(WinGetSource source); // Removed

public bool ImportSource(string jsonString); // Removed

public async Task<bool> ImportSourceAsync(List<WinGetSource> sources); // Removed

public async Task<bool> ImportSourceAsync(WinGetSource source); // Removed

public async Task<bool> ImportSourceAsync(string jsonString) // Removed
```

The following methods can be used to fulfill the same functionality:

``` csharp
public bool AddSource(WinGetSource source); // Replacement

public bool AddSource(List<WinGetSource> sources); // Replacement

public bool ImportSourcesFromJson(string jsonString); // Replacement

public async Task<bool> AddSourceAsync(WinGetSource source); // Replacement

public async Task<bool> AddSourceAsync(List<WinGetSource> sources); // Replacement

public async Task<bool> ImportSourcesFromJsonAsync(string jsonString) // Replacement
```

### ExportSources Methods

The following, redundant or useless, source export methods were removed:

``` csharp
public string ExportSources(); // Removed

public string ExportSources(string sourceName); // Removed

public string ExportSources(WinGetSource source); // Removed

public async Task<string> ExportSourcesAsync(); // Removed

public async Task<string> ExportSourcesAsync(string sourceName); // Removed

public async Task<string> ExportSourcesAsync(WinGetSource source); // Removed

public List<WinGetSource> ExportSourcesToObject(); // Removed

public List<WinGetSource> ExportSourcesToObject(string sourceName); // Removed

public async Task<List<WinGetSource>> ExportSourcesToObjectAsync(); // Removed

public async Task<List<WinGetSource>> ExportSourcesToObjectAsync(string sourceName); // Removed
```

The following methods can be used to fulfill the same functionality:

``` csharp
public List<WinGetSource> GetInstalledSources(); // Replacement

public List<WinGetSource> GetInstalledSources(string sourceName); // Replacement

public async Task<List<WinGetSource>> GetInstalledSourcesAsync(); // Replacement

public async Task<List<WinGetSource>> GetInstalledSourcesAsync(string sourceName); // Replacement

public string SourcesToJson(List<WinGetSource> sources) // Replacement
```

If you used the export methods, that just returned the WinGet output as a string (e.g. `public string ExportSources();`),  
it is recommended to now use the `GetInstalledSources` methods instead and create the JSON with the `SourcesToJson` method of the `WinGetSourceManager` class.  
This was changed, because the output provided by WinGet does not have a valid JSON format when multiple sources are exported.

### ExportSourcesToFile Methods

The return type for all synchronous `ExportSourcesToFile` methods was changed to `void` and for all asynchronous methods to just `Task`.  
If the action fails, an exception will be thrown.

Example:

``` csharp
public bool ExportSourcesToFile(string file); // Old

public void ExportSourcesToFile(string file); // New
```

## WinGetAdminOption class

This class can no longer be inherited because it was changed to sealed.

## WinGetInfoEntry class

This class is now abstract.

This class was moved to the following namespace: `WGetNET.Abstractions`

### Properties

- `Name` renamed to `EntryName`
- `Content` renamed to `RawContent`


